docs(svelte-testing-library): update API docs for v5 release (#1369)
testing-library/testing-library-docs: docs/svelte-testing-library/api.mdx

sidebar_label: API
---

`@testing-library/svelte` re-exports everything from
[`@testing-library/dom`][@testing-library/dom], as well as:

- [`render`](#render)
- [`act`](#act)
- [`cleanup`](#cleanup)
- [`fireEvent` (async)](#fireevent-async)

[@testing-library/dom]: ../dom-testing-library/api.mdx

## `render`

Render your component to the DOM with Svelte. By default, the component will be
rendered into a `<div>` appended to `document.body`.

```js
import {render} from '@testing-library/svelte'
import MyComponent from './MyComponent.svelte'

const result = render(MyComponent, componentOptions, renderOptions)
```

### Component Options

You may customize how the component is created and mounted. These options are
passed directly to Svelte.

If you only need to send props to your component, you may pass props directly,
as long as those props don't share a name with a component option.

```js

> // pass props to component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// pass props to the component
```

render(YourComponent, {myProp: 'value'})

> // pass props and other options to component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// pass props and other options to the component
```

| [`...queries`](#queries)      | [Query functions][query-functions] bound to `baseElement`. |

[pretty-dom]: ../dom-testing-library/api-debugging.mdx#prettydom
[query-functions]: ../queries/about.mdx

#### `baseElement`

_Added in `@testing-library/svelte@5.0.0`_

The base DOM element that queries are bound to. Corresponds to
`renderOptions.baseElement`. If you do not use `componentOptions.target` nor
`renderOptions.baseElement`, this will be `document.body`.

#### `container`

The DOM element the component is mounted in. Corresponds to
`componentOptions.target`. In general, avoid using `container` directly to query
for elements; use [testing-library queries][query-functions] instead.

:::tip

Use `container.firstChild` to get the first rendered element of your component.

:::

:::caution

Prior to `@testing-library/svelte@5.0.0`, `container` was set to the base
element. Use `container.firstChild.firstChild` to get the first rendered element
of the component in earlier versions.

:::

#### `component`

The Svelte component instance. See the [Svelte component
API][svelte-component-api] for more details.

:::tip

> Avoid using `component` except to test developer facing API's, like exported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avoid using `component` except to test developer-facing APIs, like exported
```

| [`unmount`](#unmount)         | Unmount and destroy the component.                    |
| [`...queries`](#queries)      | [Query functions][queries] bound to `baseElement`.    |

[pretty-dom]: ../dom-testing-library/api-debugging.mdx#prettydom
[queries]: ../queries/about.mdx

#### `baseElement`

_Added in `@testing-library/svelte@5.0.0`_

The base DOM element that queries are bound to. Corresponds to
`renderOptions.baseElement`.

#### `container`

The DOM element the component is mounted in. Corresponds to
`componentOptions.target`. In general, avoid using `container` to query for
elements; use [testing-library queries][queries] instead.

:::tip

Use `container.firstChild` to get the first rendered element of your component.

:::

:::caution

Prior to `@testing-library/svelte@5.0.0`, `container` was set to the base
element, which made the first rendered element of the component
`container.firstChild.firstChild`.

:::

#### `component`

The Svelte component instance. See the [Svelte component
API][svelte-component-api] for more details.

:::tip

Avoid using `component` except to test developer facing API's, like exported

> functions. Instead, prefer of interacting with the DOM. Read [Avoid the Test

Author: Typo

```suggestion
functions. Instead, interact with the DOM. Read [Avoid the Test
```

User][test-user] by Kent C. Dodds to understand the difference between the **end
user** and **developer user**.

:::

[test-user]: https://kentcdodds.com/blog/avoid-the-test-user

#### `debug`

> Log any passed element, or the `baseElement` by default, using

Author: ```suggestion
Log an element, or the `baseElement` by default, using
```

[prettyDOM][pretty-dom].

:::tip

If your `baseElement` is the default `document.body`, we recommend using

> [`screen.debug`][screen-debug] rather than the bound `debug`..

Author: ```suggestion
[`screen.debug`][screen-debug] rather than the bound `debug`.
```
